thank you for visiting the helpdesk at
redline controls this presentation will
focus on how to scale a red line
controls rate meter our rate meters can
be scaled to virtually any engineering
unit including feet per second gallons
per minute and so on there are limitless
applications for rate meters
including trip setpoint motor speed
control flow measurement and control and
many more red line controls rate meters
use various methods to determine their
scaling this presentation will explain
the method used for our time interval
models like the packs I packs are a cup
5 and the IMI
before I explain the equation used to
determine rate scaling let's ask some
questions pertinent to our application
first we need to know what engineering
unit we want to show whether it is in
gallons feet revolutions or another
engineering unit next we need to know
what time scale we want to show some
examples are per second per minute or
per hour next we should know what sensor
we are using and how many pulses are
given off for engineering unit if we
were measuring gallons per minute we
would need to know how many pulses come
off of our sensor per gallon our
equation for determining the rate input
is rate display times pulses per
engineering unit over desired time
factor when we are programming our rate
meter the rate input value and the rate
display value are entered the rate
display or desired reading should be set
at the fastest rated speed for your
application our time factor is used to
determine what scale we are measuring at
it can be in seconds minutes hours or so
on if our time factor were in seconds
you would use a one per minute
you would use a sixty and per hour you
would use 3600
our example needs to display
feet-per-minute of a process our fastest
rated speed is 1,000 feet per minute and
39 pulses per foot are given off from
our sensor our rate input then becomes
1,000 times 39 over 60 or 650 we were
then enter in the programming 1000 for a
display and 650 for an input
once again we have redline controls
would like to thank you for visiting our
help desk if you need any further
assistance you can access our website at
WWE controls comm for the latest news
new product information technical
specifications application solutions and
much much more